# AWS Overview

Source: Miguel A. Calles. Serverless Security: Understand, Assess, and Implement Secure and Reliable Applications in AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud (pp. 87-89). Apress. Kindle Edition.

// TODO: Format

Amazon Alexa Skills Kit and Alexa Smart Home allow a user to issue a verbal command to Alexa-enabled devices and interact with it. You might use a skill to trigger a Lambda function to provide a contextual response rather than a static response. Amazon API Gateway (i.e., HTTP) provides an HTTP interface to Lambda functions. You might use API Gateway to allow a web application, a mobile app, or another system to make an HTTP request to trigger a Lambda function and get the desired response. Amazon CloudFront (Lambda@Edge) is a Content Delivery Network (CDN) that speeds up the content delivery time. You might use CloudFront’s Lambda@Edge to trigger a Lambda function to transform CDN content before it is delivered. For example, it can update a token with a value when retrieving a static web page or insert security headers. Amazon CloudWatch captures logs in log groups and monitors AWS events. Amazon CloudWatch captures events emitted by other AWS services4 and triggers a Lambda function with the event information. You might use a CloudWatch event to trigger a Lambda function to create a database record or send a notification to stakeholders when a virtual machine running on AWS is shut down. Amazon CloudWatch uses streams to trigger Lambda functions when those Lambda functions subscribe to a CloudWatch log group it has a new log entry. You might use a CloudWatch log stream to trigger a Lambda function to store CloudWatch log data in a different service or format. Amazon Cognito provides user authentication and access control and integrates with other identity and access management systems. A Cognito User Pool is a user credential data store that securely stores user login information and defines the access privileges to AWS services. Cognito User Pools trigger5 Lambda functions when a user signs up and authenticates. You might use a Cognito User Pool to trigger a Lambda function to validate user metadata is complete and valid before finishing the registration process. Amazon DynamoDB is a database designed for large data sets of unstructured or semistructured schemas (i.e., Not Only Structured Query Language [NoSQL] data). DynamoDB uses streams to send events to Lambda functions when its data tables are updated. You might use DynamoDB to trigger a Lambda function to create a change record when a user updates their profile, and that action updates the associated table. Amazon Kinesis supports ingesting large amounts of data into a stream and sending it to its subscribers in real time. It supports text, images, and videos. You might use Kinesis to trigger a Lambda function to analyze text and apply metadata whenever the stream receives data. Amazon Lex allows you to build voice and text chatbots. You might use a Lex to trigger a Lambda function to validate or fulfill a command a user has sent to a bot before the bot responds. Amazon Simple Email Service (SES) allows you to send and receive emails. You might use SES to trigger a Lambda function to update an order from pending to approved when a user sends an email accepting an order. Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS) is a messaging service where you publish event data, and other functions and services subscribe to receive it. You organize and group SNS data into topics, similar to how you might structure a web discussion forum. You might use an SNS topic to trigger a Lambda function to update a database record. It would set an entry to an archived status when moving its associated file into long-term storage. Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) collects messages from input sources (e.g., SNS topic messages) and organizes them into queues. SQS sends messages from the queue and guarantees a message is delivered at least one time. You might use an SQS queue to trigger a Lambda function to process SNS events in batches. Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) provides remote file storage and security features (e.g., file encryption, versioning, and access control). You use an S3 bucket to store the remote files. You might use S3 to trigger a Lambda function to catalog a file uploaded to an S3 bucket. AWS CloudFormation uses templates to create several resources (e.g., networking, functions, storage, and more). You might use CloudFormation to trigger a Lambda function to get the information required by the CloudFormation template while it is creating resources. AWS CodeCommit provides source control for capturing your source code and files and change history into repositories. You might use CodeCommit to trigger a Lambda function to start an internal process when code is committed to the source code
